When was the last time you got discouraged?
I think we've all experienced those low emotions when we feel like giving out or throwing
in the towel as we speak.
Now we're not talking about serious depression, which is described by the in the October
2013 awake as something that is often ongoing and can interfere with our daily life.
No discouragement is low points.
It's an emotion that can come on as quickly.
It can cause us to lose our zeal for spiritual activities.
And it's brought on by a variety of factors, for example, unfulfilled expectations, criticism,
personal failings, lack of results in the ministry.
Now discouragement is not a sign of spiritual weakness.
Many faithful ones in the Bible experienced discouragement.
But it is something we have to take serious because of our scripture text highlight when
we're discouraged, our strength can be meager.
Jehovah takes it serious when we're discouraged.
How do we know that?
Let's open our Bibles to Psalm 34 and notice what Jehovah does when you are discouraged.
Psalm 34, look at verse 18, it says, Jehovah is close to the broken hearted.
He saves those who are crushed in spirit, whereas a footnote brings out, are discouraged.
Yes, Jehovah gets close to us when we're discouraged, isn't that a beautiful thought
to think that Jehovah comes near to us to assist us because he loves us.
He draws close to us.
Now why might he do that?
Why does he remind us that he's close by?
Well, one reason may be because when we're discouraged, we can feel like we've disappointed
Jehovah, or he's no longer with us, or we may feel slow to reach out and talk to him
in prayer.
By Jehovah reminding us that he's close to us, it dispels that negative emotion.
Another reason he may get close to us is because of what first Peter chapter 5 verse 8 says,
that Satan is like a roaring lion seeking to devour us.
Yes, he's on the attack.
Yes, when we get discouraged and our strength becomes meager, we can drop our guard.
And like a literal lion, Satan looks to take advantage of those who are weak.
Jehovah does not want us to give out.
And as a result, because of his love for us, he draws close to us.
Now if Jehovah is close to us when we're discouraged, what can we do to reach out to
him?
Let's talk about three things that we can do.
One is our prayers, what to include in them, a two are Bible reading, how it can help
us, and three are association.
So first of all, our prayers.
We pray to Jehovah with confidence, knowing he hears our prayers, he acts on our behalf.
It's not just a feel good therapy for us, but we're talking to Jehovah, someone who loves
us and wants to rescue us.
Now what might we include in our prayers?
Well, remember what Jesus encouraged us to do at Luke chapter 11, 9 through 13?
He said to ask for Holy Spirit.
Why?
Because the Holy Spirit is given to us to comfort us, to strengthen us.
And evidently the Apostle Paul, when he was discouraged and moments of discouragement,
he asked for Holy Spirit.
That's why at Philippians 4.13 he said, all things he's able to endure because of the one
who imparts power to him.
Yes, that Holy Spirit can renew our strength spiritually and emotionally when we ask for
it.
And another thing we might want to include in our prayers is what's highlighted for us
in Psalm chapter 61, at Psalm 61.
And notice what was the Psalmist says in verse 2.
Psalm 61 2, it says, from the ends of the earth, I will cry out to you, when my heart is
in despair.
Lead me onto a rock that is higher than I am.
This week I can ask Jehovah to lead us to a rock that is higher than we are, to give
us that inner confidence that seems inaccessible by our own strength.
Isn't that what he did for Elijah?
You remember the account with Elijah?
He had the privilege as you see in the image there in the background of seeing Jehovah's
hand and defeating the bell prophets.
But then shortly afterwards he got discouraged because of a bad report he'd heard.
He felt alone and as a result he found himself pouring his heart out to Jehovah in prayer.
How did Jehovah lead him to a rock that was higher than he was or give him that inner
confidence?
Would Jehovah change his perspective?
Jehovah reminded him that there was 7,000 others that had also stayed faithful to Jehovah.
He was not alone.
That strengthened Elijah.
Yes, when we pray to Jehovah to help lead us to a rock higher than we are, he will do
just as he did for Elijah for us.
Another thing we can do is focus in on our Bible reading and we're discouraged.
Now what verses do you find comforting when you have those low moments?
Many find encouragement from reading the Psalms.
However, I might also want to consider the encouragement we're given at Hebrews chapter 12.
Notice what Hebrews chapter 12 says regarding running the race with endurance.
What can help us? Look at verse 2.
Talking about running with endurance, says as we look intently at the chief agent
and perfect of our faith Jesus, for the joy that was set before him he endured a torture
stake, despising shame, and is sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
So we look intently at who?
The chief agent, Jesus.
That term chief agent describes Jesus' essential role in helping humans.
And what will be the result when we stay focused on him?
Verse 3.
Indeed, consider closely the one who has endured such hostile speech from sinners
against their own interests so that you may not get tired and give up.
With that in mind, we could read the gospel accounts.
You see, when we read the gospels, we see the refreshment that comes from Jehovah and Jesus.
And because Jesus is a perfect reflection of his father, we see Jehovah's love
as we read about the accounts where Jesus took care of the downtrodden, helped the lowly.
The sermon on the mount as we read that it soothes us because it helps reset our priorities.
Yes, reading the gospel accounts keeps us focused on the chief agent, Jesus,
in helping us in times of discouragement.
Another way we can reach out to Jehovah in times of a discouragement is to put ourselves
in association with our brothers and sisters.
When we're associating with our brothers and sisters, Jehovah can move them
to help us, to strengthen us, and sometimes they're not even aware of it.
Does he notice what association with our brothers and sisters can do?
We open our Bibles to Acts, chapter 28.
And notice the effect it had on the Apostle Paul.
He was in a low point, being in prison bonds, being transferred to another location,
discouraged.
And notice what Jehovah did for him in verse 15, Acts 28, verse 15.
From there, the brothers, when they heard the news about us,
came as far as the marketplace of apius and three taverns to meet us.
And notice, on catching sight of them, Paul thanked God and took courage.
Yes, just a sight of his brothers, brought Paul courage, gave him that inner strength
to not give up and to continue on.
So in review, when we get discouraged from time to time,
Jehovah understands that.
He also understands that it's serious, that we give attention to it.
And that's why he draws close to us, stands right next to us to help us not give up.
And we can draw close to him through our prayers, asking for his Holy Spirit,
asking him to take us to a rock higher than we are.
We can do so by our Bible reading, focusing in on the refreshment we get from the gospels.
And finally, by putting ourselves in association with our brothers and sisters.
Because when we feel like giving up, remember, Jehovah won't give up on us.
He draws close to us because he loves us and he wants to help us.